People's governments of all cities, counties (cities, districts) and units directly under the provincial government:In order to guide and support the high-quality development of agricultural leading enterprises, with the consent of the provincial government, the following opinions are put forward.1、 General requirements（1） Guiding ideology.   With the guarantee of strengthening scientific and technological innovation and policy supply, we will cultivate a number of leading agricultural enterprises with strong innovation ability, strong market expansion ability, strong comprehensive strength and strong driving effect, create a number of agricultural whole industry chains with complete industrial chains, good quality and efficiency, and closely linked with the interests of farmers, provide strong support for the comprehensive revitalization of rural areas and agricultural and rural modernization, and provide sustainable impetus for the high-quality development and construction of a demonstration area of common prosperity.（2） Main objectives. The matrix of leading agricultural enterprises continues to grow, their scale and strength continue to improve, their ability to connect with and lead agriculture has been significantly enhanced, their brand influence has been continuously enhanced, and their independent innovation ability has been further improved. By 2025, there will be 8000 leading agricultural enterprises in the province, including 1000 leading agricultural enterprises above the provincial level. We will strive to cultivate 10 leading agricultural enterprises with an annual sales revenue of more than 10 billion yuan and 20 large backbone agricultural leading enterprises with an annual sales revenue of more than 5billion yuan; The R & D investment of leading agricultural enterprises accounted for more than 1.5% of the main business income, and 1000 agricultural high-tech enterprises; Build more than 200 provincial-level agricultural industrialization consortiums, and create 100 agricultural whole industry chains with a single output value of more than 1billion yuan, including 10 provincial-level landmark industry chains with an output value of more than 10billion yuan.2、 Key tasks（1） Build large-scale planting and breeding bases. Based on the construction of platforms such as grain production functional areas, characteristic agricultural product advantage areas and modern agricultural parks, we encourage and introduce agricultural leading enterprises to lay out raw material production bases in the province. We will support leading agricultural enterprises to carry out projects such as comprehensive improvement of farmland, construction of high standard farmland, standardized large-scale planting and breeding bases and agricultural standard lands, improve the base conditions and supporting facilities, and enhance the ability to support and serve rural industries. We will strengthen the transformation of farmland suitable for mechanization, popularize and apply advanced and applicable agricultural machinery and equipment, explore and popularize the modes of "leading enterprises' purchase, farmers' rent" and "farmers' voluntary association, machines and tools sharing" of agricultural machinery and equipment according to local conditions, and efficiently carry out agricultural machinery services. (responsible units: Provincial Department of agriculture and rural development, provincial development and Reform Commission, Provincial Department of economy and information technology, Provincial Department of science and technology, Provincial Department of natural resources, provincial supply and marketing cooperatives, Provincial Forestry Bureau, and municipal and county [City, district] governments. The leading unit is the one ranking first, the same below. The following shall be implemented by municipal and county [City, district] Governments and will not be listed.)（2） We will deepen and expand the intensive processing of agricultural products. We will focus on the development of grain and other important agricultural products and industries with distinctive advantages, and rationally distribute the processing industry of agricultural products. We will support cities and counties (cities and districts) where conditions permit to plan and build agricultural product processing parks, strengthen the construction of infrastructure and public service platforms, and promote the co construction and sharing of facilities and equipment such as scientific and technological research and development, quality testing, cold storage and refrigeration, waste water, waste gas and residue treatment, and e-commerce live broadcast. Leading agricultural enterprises are encouraged to develop primary processing, intensive processing and comprehensive utilization and processing of by-products of agricultural products, actively develop and process convenient flavor dishes, and expand the prefabrication industry. We will support all localities to make a distinction between leading enterprises in the processing of agricultural products and Industrial Enterprises above Designated Size in the comprehensive evaluation of per mu benefits, implement a separate evaluation or set up additional items, and give preference in the identification of categories through upgrading. The fixed asset investment, investment intensity, per mu added value and per mu tax indicators of agricultural processing projects in 26 counties in mountainous areas are lowered by 0.7 correction factor. (responsible units: Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, provincial development and Reform Commission, Provincial Department of economy and information technology, Provincial Department of science and technology, and Provincial Forestry Bureau)（3） Improve the vitality of scientific and technological innovation. Leading agricultural enterprises are encouraged to increase R & D investment, carry out technological innovation and research in the fields of green recycling, intensive processing, quality control, emission reduction and loss reduction of agricultural products, and increase the introduction of advanced technologies and equipment at home and abroad. We will guide leading agricultural enterprises to deepen cooperation with universities, scientific research institutes and industrial technology development bases, implement systems such as the shareholding of scientific and technological achievements, the flexible introduction of talents and the sharing of experimental bases, and build an innovative consortium with the advantages of "government, industry, University, research and Application". Support leading agricultural enterprises to undertake the construction of high-quality science and technology promotion bases. Support leading agricultural enterprises to apply for provincial high-tech enterprise R & D center, Enterprise Research Institute, Key Laboratory, enterprise technology center and other innovation platforms, apply for the identification of the first set (set) of agricultural machinery equipment, speed up the centralized tackling of key technologies, common technologies and "neck" technologies, and improve the technology application level and material and equipment conditions. (responsible units: Provincial Department of science and technology, Provincial Department of economy and information technology, Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, Provincial Academy of Agricultural Sciences, and Provincial Forestry Bureau)（4） Strengthen digital leadership. Support leading agricultural enterprises to expand the application of digital technology, carry out the construction of digital factories, digital pastures, digital fisheries and Agricultural Internet of things bases, and improve the smart agricultural technology system. We will support powerful agricultural leading enterprises to build a digital management system for a single variety of the whole industry chain, create a productive service sharing platform such as the industrial Internet, promote the orderly connection of government and enterprise digital management platforms, and jointly build and share digital resources of rural industrial information. (responsible units: Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, Provincial Department of economy and information technology, Provincial Department of science and technology, provincial market supervision bureau, provincial supply and marketing cooperatives, Provincial Academy of Agricultural Sciences, and Provincial Forestry Bureau)（5） Open up and strengthen new-type trade circulation. Leading agricultural enterprises are encouraged to develop new business forms such as direct order selling, chain distribution, e-commerce, processing experience, central kitchen, etc., support the construction of storage and preservation facilities for agricultural products at the origin such as ventilated storage, controlled atmosphere storage, mechanical cold storage and pre cold storage, undertake the collection and storage business of agricultural products at all levels, support the construction of centralized storage cold storage, refrigerators at retail outlets and cold chain logistics facilities, and expand the scope of distribution. All localities should coordinate the construction of agricultural product wholesale markets, speed up the transformation or construction of shared cold storage and cold chain logistics centers for agricultural products, develop main channel enterprises for the circulation of agricultural products, and support the cultivation of cold chain logistics group companies. (responsible units: Provincial Department of Commerce, provincial development and Reform Commission, Provincial Department of transportation, Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, provincial supply and marketing cooperatives, and Provincial Forestry Bureau)（6） Create famous brands through innovation. Leading agricultural enterprises are encouraged to implement brand strategy, innovate business categories, improve product quality, create independent brands, and promote mother child brands, whole industry chain brands and brand alliances. Establish the agricultural brand catalogue system, promote the construction of regional public brand, enterprise brand and characteristic agricultural product brand system for agricultural products, and cultivate more than 20 "Zhejiang agricultural products" brand enterprises every year. Give full play to the role of various agricultural products display and sales platforms and industry associations, and carry out brand promotion of agricultural products in close combination with agricultural festivals. We will support the development of e-commerce for agricultural products, promote new marketing models such as live broadcast and delivery, and expand the medium and high-end market for brand agricultural products. We will intensify efforts to crack down on trademark infringement and safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of enterprises. (responsible units: Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, Provincial Department of Commerce, provincial market supervision bureau, provincial supply and marketing cooperatives, and Provincial Forestry Bureau)（7） Accelerate the construction of the whole industry chain. Leading agricultural enterprises will be guided to form agricultural industrialization consortiums with new agricultural business entities such as farmers' cooperatives and family farms, as well as village level collective economic organizations, to participate in the construction of industrial agricultural cooperatives, and to build a benefit linkage mechanism that allows farmers to share the value-added benefits of processing and circulation. Support the establishment of large agricultural leading enterprise groups through mergers and acquisitions, share cooperation, asset transfer, etc., promote the deep integration of leading industries with leisure, culture and tourism, teaching and research, health care, etc., and improve the level of upstream and downstream collaboration and risk resistance of the industrial chain. We will carry out the action of "ten chains and hundreds of billions" for the whole agricultural industry chain, cultivate and expand "chain owner" enterprises, and promote each county (city, district) to build at least one agricultural whole industry chain with an output value of more than 1billion yuan. (responsible units: Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, Provincial Department of Commerce, Provincial Department of culture and tourism, provincial supply and marketing cooperatives, and Provincial Forestry Bureau)（8） Develop domestic and foreign medium and high-end markets. Leading agricultural enterprises are encouraged to actively participate in national strategies such as the joint construction of the "the Belt and Road" and the integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta, and to explore emerging consumer markets. Support leading agricultural enterprises to invest in modern agricultural projects outside the province and abroad, participate in China International Import Expo, China International Consumer Goods Expo and other domestic and foreign trade fairs, and expand the import and export trade of agricultural products. Support leading agricultural enterprises to apply for international trademark registration and cultivate international agricultural product brands. On the premise of effective risk control, we should encourage the use of export credit insurance to provide protection for the export of agricultural products. We will rectify the charging items at maritime ports, reduce the level of regular container import and export charges, and reduce international freight costs. (responsible units: Provincial Department of Commerce, Provincial Foreign Affairs Office, provincial market supervision bureau, Hangzhou Customs, Ningbo customs, and provincial Haigang group)3、 Supporting policies（1） Increase financial support. Governments at all levels have increased their support for leading agricultural enterprises through loan interest discounts, risk compensation, guarantee premium subsidies or project construction subsidies. Explore the establishment of policy incentive mechanism, and vigorously support agricultural leading enterprises to carry out processing technology transformation, breeding of excellent varieties, development of new products, application of new technologies, market construction, construction of cold chain logistics system, brand promotion, environmental protection construction, construction of planting and breeding bases, listing, etc. Strive for central financial funds to support the construction of agricultural industrialization consortia. Give full play to the leading role of government industrial funds at all levels, and increase support for agricultural leading enterprise projects that meet the recommended conditions. (responsible units: Provincial Department of finance, Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, and Provincial Forestry Bureau)（2） Implement preferential tax policies. The enterprise income tax of leading agricultural enterprises engaged in planting, breeding and primary processing of agricultural products shall be reduced or exempted according to regulations. Eligible financial funds obtained from governments at or above the county level and relevant departments may be regarded as non taxable income. Production land directly used for agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery shall be exempted from urban land use tax. The R & D expenses incurred by leading agricultural enterprises can be added and deducted before corporate income tax according to regulations. Agricultural leading enterprises recognized as high-tech enterprises shall be subject to enterprise income tax at a reduced rate of 15%. Leading agricultural enterprises that engage in industrial projects encouraged by the state and introduce advanced processing and production equipment that cannot be produced in China can be exempted from import tariff and import value-added tax in accordance with relevant regulations. The agricultural production electricity price shall be implemented for the electricity used for planting, breeding, fishing production and within the scope of the provincial catalogue of primary processing of agricultural products. (responsible units: provincial taxation bureau, provincial development and Reform Commission, Provincial Department of science and technology, Provincial Department of agriculture and rural areas, provincial forestry bureau and provincial electric power company)（3） Strengthen land use guarantee. When formulating the annual land use plan at the provincial level, at least 5% of the new construction land index shall be arranged to ensure the land for key rural industries and projects. When arranging the annual new construction land plan, all localities should reasonably arrange the land for expansion and new projects of new agricultural business entities such as agricultural leading enterprises. Explore the special design of provincial major industrial projects